JBIDE-29194: Prepare 4.29.1.Final release (#1006)
jbosstools/jbosstools-website: blog/4.29.1.final.adoc

= JBoss Tools 4.29.1.Final for Eclipse 2023-09
:page-layout: blog
:page-author: sbouchet
:page-tags: [release, jbosstools, jbosscentral]
:page-date: 2024-06-13

> Happy to announce 4.29.1.Final build for Eclipse 2023-09.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are pleased to announce the release of build 4.29.1.Final for Eclipse 2023-09.
```

Downloads available at link:/downloads/jbosstools/2023-09/4.29.1.Final.html[JBoss Tools 4.29.1 Final].

== What is New?

> Full info is at link:/documentation/whatsnew/jbosstools/4.29.1.Final.html[this page]. Some highlights are below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full details can be found at link:/documentation/whatsnew/jbosstools/4.29.1.Final.html[this page]. Here are some highlights:
```

=== General

=== Hibernate Tools

==== Older hibernate runtime disabled by default

> The old 5.4, 5.5, 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4 Hibernate Runtiles are now disabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The old Hibernate Runtimes for versions 5.4, 5.5, 6.0, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, and 6.4 are now disabled by default.
```

A new Hibernate 6.6 runtime provider incorporates Hibernate Core version 6.6.0.Alpha1, Hibernate Ant version 6.6.0.Alpha1 and Hibernate Tools version 6.6.0.Alpha1.

===== Runtime Provider Updates

The Hibernate 6.4 runtime provider now incorporates Hibernate Core version 6.4.8.Final, Hibernate Ant version 6.4.8.Final and Hibernate Tools version 6.4.8.Final.

The Hibernate 6.3 runtime provider now incorporates Hibernate Core version 6.3.2.Final, Hibernate Ant version 6.3.2.Final and Hibernate Tools version 6.3.2.Final.

The Hibernate 6.2 runtime provider now incorporates Hibernate Core version 6.2.25.Final, Hibernate Ant version 6.2.25.Final and Hibernate Tools version 6.2.25.Final.

The Hibernate 5.3 runtime provider now incorporates Hibernate Core version 5.3.36.Final and Hibernate Tools version 5.3.36.Final.

=== Server Tools

==== New Server view based on RSP available in the update site

In JBoss Tools, a fresh perspective has been introduced, known as the "RSP Servers View," which utilizes the Runtime Server Protocol (RSP). More information on link:/documentation/whatsnew/server/server-news-4.29.0.Final.html[this page].

> However, this feature was not available on the JBossTools update site. This as been resolved and now the feature appears as "Runtime Server Protocol Server Tooling by Red Hat", under the "JBoss Application Server Adapters" category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this feature was not available on the JBossTools update site. This has been resolved and now the feature appears as "Runtime Server Protocol Server Tooling by Red Hat", under the "JBoss Application Server Adapters" category.
```

=== And more...

> You can find more noteworthy updates in on link:/documentation/whatsnew/jbosstools/4.29.1.Final.html[this page].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more noteworthy updates on link:/documentation/whatsnew/jbosstools/4.29.1.Final.html[this page].
```
